When the participant arrives at the lab, they are invited to wash their hands and remove all jewelry that may interfere with the collection of psychophysiological measurements. They are then seated across from a screen and fitted with headphones and a BioNomadix unit configured to collect electrodermal activity and photoplethysmography data. The lights are turned off, and they are presented with the experimental stimulus. The stimulus consists of two sets of three videos each, followed by a discussion prompt. In between sections of the stimulus, the participant was presented with survey questions.

One set of videos features contentious interactions about political topics. In them, a group of supporters of the Affordable Care Act argue with protester, a CEO of a venture capital firm argues with Occupy Wall Street Protesters, and anti-ACA protesters yell their complaints at reporters and across a picket line. The other set of videos shows contention about topics which do not map onto partisanship. They include an argument during a Jerry Springer Show wedding, between the presiding priest and the groom's mother, a televised debate between groups of atheists and Christians about the Big Bang, and a clip of Jerry Springer yelling at a man about the way he is raising his daughter. The order of these sets of video sets is randomized per participant, but the order of videos within each set is not. 

After both sets of videos are presented, the participant is shown text which informs them that they will be discussing a politically controversial topic with another study participant. After they are given time to process this information and react physiologically, they are told that the other participant is an acquaintance of theirs. Next, they are presented with three possible topics for the discussion--Obamacare, tax cuts, and abortion--and asked to prepare to express and defend their positions on any of these topics. They are then given several more minutes to think and react. After the stimulus, the participant is debriefed, to ensure they do not believe the discussion was never intended to occur. 
